From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan and mountain show
number one 57. Recorded live
Thursday, April 9th, 2009. Support for Hanselman.
This is provided by Tellerik
RD controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com and by dotnet developers
journal, the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode of Hansel minutia, Scott
talks with Richard cam. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And this week
it's Hansel, minutia, and who
else to bring on the
show for Hanselman new ship,
but our very own Richard Campbell.
Hey sir. How's it going?
I am well, sir. How
are you? Oh, brilliant. Brilliant.
Now you're you're on vacation
or on the road or
running around somewhere right now.
I'm at work. I'm a,
I did some meetings in
Boston and then I popped
down to new London and
you called and said, Hey,
can we do a minutia
show? And I'm like, yeah,
sure. Why not? But I'm
going to be a pop
studios anyway. So fantastic. I'm
actually at the studio. No,
Carl around he's off doing
errands. So I got the
place to myself, which is
challenging because there's lots and
lots of equipment here and
no labels on anything, just
knobs and knobs and buttons
and everything is just black.
And there's no way to
know what anything does. That's
right. They all go to
11, but they don't actually
say anything. That's a Carl Franklin
security system. Yes. This is
sound recording through obscurity. So
one of the great things
about the minutia shows is
that they have no agenda
and most people are just
going to find their time
completely wasted, which is a
challenge considering that the whole
point of this show is
to not waste your time.
So it's a certain kind
of a balance that we
have to. And I'm glad
that when you think about
wasting time, you think of
me. I do. I say
to myself, what Canadian could
I call that would best
waste my listeners time. So
it helps it go ahead.
No, you go. If you
see, so let me see
what's going on. I'm building
a garden, I'm building an
arcade machine in the, in
the garage. I'm dedicating my
life to being handy. And
I caught your Twitter where
you said that buying lumber
was the most incompetent you've
ever felt. Yeah, I was
really having trouble with it,
frankly. I mean, I went
in and I was all,
I kind of like prepared
the speech. It was almost
like when you go to
a foreign country and you
prepare your opening speech in
Spanish or whatever, you know,
I was in Morocco and
I planned my first three
sentences in French. Right. Just
so I can make them
appreciate that. I appreciate them.
I did the same thing
at the lumberyard, heard my
initial lumberyard speech so that
they would appreciating this, this
kind of little cultural anthropology
here that the lumberyard people
would understand that I was
one of them and not
fear me. And I just
went in and I said,
yeah, I'm gonna need a
couple of two by fours.
Brush treated in a couple
of two by tens, but
I'm gonna be cutting it.
You know? And somewhere in
there, I, I made a
mistake or maybe then my,
maybe my accent was wrong
or something, but they knew
that I was not, it
was almost like, Hey, I
was in two by fours,
two by tens and get
a of, and you're a
computer person. Aren't you dammit.
How did you know what
it was? It was, it
was it posture, you know,
wasn't the, I'll do this.
T-shirt what did I do?
What did I do wrong
to give me away? So
anyway, so then it became
the, they started talking to
me like it was a
kindergartener, well, a four by
fours, not really four inches
by four inches. Oh, you
know, weight, weight, pressure treating
does not involve arsenic. And
hasn't for the last 15
years. Oh, where did you
learn about all this Google?
You know, so yes. So
then it's even worse when
they start loading the lumber
into my minivan, which in,
that was also kind of
an embarrassing thing. Right? Move.
I literally moved the emergency
diaper kit aside so that
I could get my two
by tens in they're so
good about feeling good about
that. And then I had
to buy a saw, that's
a very emasculating experience. I
bought a handsaw. Everyone at
the lumberyard assumes that you
have some kind of a,
what are those things called?
The circular saws that cut
people's fingers off. Yeah. The
circular saw circus song. Is
that what it's called? Yeah.
Everyone assumes you have a
complete, like you've dedicated one
entire garage to Working. Yes.
You must have By all
this I'm like, can I
buy a saw? Which was
a problem. Cause yeah, That
simple gave it away. Yeah.
Very clear signs. You are
not a professional. Will you
have anything? No, I'm really
good at calling professionals though.
So you, you just hire,
use, pay, you throw money
at the problem. I figured
this, you know, people pay
me to make computer systems
work well, while I'm doing
that, I'm making enough money
to pay the guy, to
paint the fence. You know,
there's an irony in this
because I'm all about outsourcing,
right? I'm the first guy
to say, dude, hire DBA,
dude, hire a designer. You
know, please let someone else
host this profession, your own
website at your house. Yeah.
Let the professionals do their
jobs. I can't do that
because it's a manly thing
to chop down trees and
cut wood and build things.
And I need to be
involved. You need to do
that yourself. Right. Cause I
don't know if you know,
but I'm at the final,
like six weeks of a
one year renovation of my
house. Really? Yeah. Are you
doing this yourself now? I've
been hiring professionals for a
year. Wow. But my wife
and I did the design.
We spent almost a year
on the design before we
got started. And we basically
took the whole main floor
off the house. We left
the server closet intact. So
don't, don't worry. It's okay.
The office survived the whole
thing, but we, yeah, we
rebuilt the whole main floor
and we added another floor
And you're the general contractor
in this context Actually. Stacy
is my wife is because
remember she's a professional project
manager on the garment industry.
So there was a point
where we had the architect,
the general contractor and both
of us in the room.
And I said, we have
entirely too many project managers
here. At least I have
two, at least two of
us have to step back.
And in that case it
was the architect and me.
Wow. So you had a
server room in your house
now, Wiring closet. Now, what
is the difference between wiring
closet and server room is
just square footage. I think
that's part of it. Well,
I, so I have a
rack that has all the
wiring on it. That's one
30 rack. And then I
have a separate 30 year.
Raca has a servers on
it. You have a rack
in your house. Two of
them That's, that's pretty bad
ass. And I put little
racks built into the desks
as well. So the workstations
rollout on rails and you
can service them too. You're
my hero. I I'm here
to serve man. And did
I point out that all
the machines in the, in
the office are water-cooled Now
you are a water cooling,
man. I rec I, you
said this to me before.
Yes. Cause I've got my
big quad power machine. And
I think if I remember
correctly, you told me that
I wasn't pushing it far
enough from a, an overclocking
perspective. And you said water
cooling was the way. And
I said, running tubes of
water through electrical boxes was
a mistake. You are no
huge watercolor. I find it.
I find it deeply rewarding
to pour water into my
PCs and have it be
a good thing. It just
feels good. But you mean,
the funny thing is I'm
not an overclock here. Right?
I don't worry about overclocking.
I think the machines have
enough performance. I'm trying to
get rid of noise. So
I, the whole thing with
my, when you walk into
my office, there's 16 PCs
in my office. There is
not a sound, right. The
room is almost entirely silent.
Really? Yeah. That doesn't matter
because I've got six PCs
in my, and it's like,
it's like being on an
airplane all the time. Well,
that's the thing is that
what I did was eliminate
every single fan from the
office. All the fans are
in the server closet and
the server closet is soundproof
and air conditioned and so
forth. Huh. And is that,
is it worth the effort?
I mean the hours you
pour into that you get
those hours back just with
blissful smile. Absolutely. And you
remember, I share my office
with my wife. It's a
two station office. So, you
know, station, office, we're side
by side That make it
difficult for you to just
screw around and not get
any work done. No, because
the screens wrap all the
way around me. So there
are several couple of screens.
She can't see how many
screens do you have? I
used three on the development
machine and one on the
secondary machine. And then I
have the laptop, You know,
I've got four monitors and
I'm going to have to
give up one of them.
I'm building that Mame machine
and building an arcade cabinet.
Right? When I'm, I mean,
let me rephrase John bat
Dorff and I have, have
bought a old cabinet. We
are gutting it and putting
a PC in it because
I don't want to just
play arcade games. I also
want to be able to
play doom on this thing.
And everyone's like, Oh look,
I can play donkey Kong.
And only cost me three
grand and took four weeks.
I'm overpowering this thing. I
want to be able to
play far cry, but standing
up. So I'm going to
put an LCD in it.
Even though the arcade purists
are telling me to put
a 27 inch, you know,
arcade monitor 300 pound CRT.
So this is going to
mean sacrificing one of my
beloved four by three LCDs
from my four monitor set
up. Yeah. I'm sitting here
looking at my four monitors.
I've got acquaint left to
right. I've got webpages, outlook
tweet, deck Zune. And I
just it's like trying to
pick a child. You know,
it's like Solomon, which of
these kids do I not
love that much tech? Is
it the, is it the
Zune? I don't know. Well
then I can't buy a
four by three LCD anymore.
You just can't they're all
going to be 16 by
nine now. And I'm amazed
at how quickly tweet deck
owns screen real estate. I've
never seen an app other
than visual studio. There's no
app that gets better. The
bigger you get more than
that, Like a trader, like
a, like a, I'm not
a trader Trei, but a
trader like someone on wall
street. Right. You know, like
why would someone need more
monitors? I'm like, well, gosh,
if I could dedicate an
extra three monitors across the
top To tweet deck the
river of news, I don't
remember dedicating a monitor point
cast. Yeah. I remember playing
CAS, but that, that was
you didn't you needed to
save like a hundred pixels
by 800 pixels for point
cast. You didn't need much
for that. But tweet deck,
it's all the different searches
you've got running and you
just, you cannot have too
much screen space on. I'm
telling you, Taking one of
these monitors and getting rid
of it is going to
be a problem. And I'm
seeing people online that are
saying, gosh, you want a
20 inch LCD four by
three, can't buy one, buy
a 24 inch 16 by
nine, and then just cover
the sides with paper. I
like it. Arcade solution for
that cardboard black cardboard to
make it. And that's the
equivalent of a 20 inch
screen. Yeah, No, no. I
think you should go get
one of those 24 inch,
19 2012. I was his
time to come to the
16 by nine. World's got
it's time. It is, well,
I appreciate 16 by nine
from a information perspective, but
I guess I'm just going
to have to replace it
with another 24 cause four
monitors, man, once you live
the Multimin life, you just
can't possibly give it up.
Yeah. I, I, my triple
screen rig is the 30
inch in the center and
then two 20 inch, 16
by 12 hung in portrait
mode. And I've just found
that that 1600 pixels high
is incredibly useful really portrait
mode. Well, the two side
screens are because the center
screen is 25, 60 by
1600. So the whole thing
was how many screens can
I get going? 1600 high.
And so hanging those twenties
in portrait mode, they made
them the same height as
the 30 inch. Now that's
interesting. Now you got me.
So I've got a 24
inch, which is the 24
inch Dell from two years
ago. I love the way
that Dell does their numbering.
It's a 24 Oh seven.
So it was made in
2007 and it's 24 inches.
Right. I just think that's
finally, that makes sense to
me. Yeah, totally. So this
is 1920 by 1200. See,
I'm trying to figure out
which of my other monitors,
I've got a bunch of
basically 1200 tall appears to
be my thing. Right. I've
got to figure out. So
you're saying I would get
a 16 by nine. That
was at least that wide
and then flip it over
and that can put documents
and stuff over there. Yeah,
you could do. Yeah. Setting
up a 1920 by 1200
in portrait would be interesting.
Cause the height is awesome
on that. Yeah. That's interesting.
I think that that's what
I'll have to do. I'll
remove the tweet deck one
and I'll have to switch
my, my, my 16 by
nine and flip it over
that. Doesn't the, the, when
you flip something over like
that, you go from having
RGB left to right pixels
to RGB, top to bottom,
which makes clear type rendering
a little wonky. Yes, no.
To as well. I haven't
found a problem with it
actually with the, with the
last mission, the machine that
I built like that it
was able to tolerate it
quite well. There, the, there
is a difference between the
screens is when you, when
you drag across them, but
it's not horrible. Cause they
well, the plus the triple
approach you have the center
screen is much bigger than
the wings. So the center
screen is your focus of
work. That's what studio owns.
And then the wings are
supporting information, right? They are
documentation. They're invariably some kind
of search going on there,
you know, the are running
a running dialogue, something like
that. Yeah. Huh. It's just
a way of orienting yourself.
But, and then of course
now there's folks that do
another row of screens above
the main row. Yeah. That,
which I think is another
level of insanity entirely. I
haven't gone there yet. And
I do say yet. Yeah.
It's inevitable without a doubt.
Yes. He talked to me
about MVC cause I saw
your blog post about MVC
shipping. Yeah. Yeah. The, the
guys Phil and God goo
and the various and sundry
people really worked hard to
get it released as open
source. And so far it's
been very positive. Although we
did see a very interesting
comment in a, in a,
what do you call it?
A dead tree magazine. And
what was it? Redmond developer
news, Stephen forte, a friend
of ours, a friend of
yours. And mine said that
he was concerned that what
happens if people start forking
in VC and he didn't
think that was a good
thing. So he was actually
concerned. We were releasing the
source because people might make
their own versions and that
he wouldn't, you know, he
would be overwhelmed by that.
I guess. Well, therein lies
an interesting question, which is,
so why do, why release
the code is open source?
Well, because why not? Right.
I mean, that's, that's what
we're trying to, to get
people at Microsoft to think
about is Why not? Yeah.
What happens when we release
source? So you have no
plan. You're not actually thinking
this is going to change
X you're saying, let's just
throw it out there. See
what I mean? It's not
like, you know, release the
source and then kind of
mentally, you know, change, you
know, I don't know. What's
the, I'm hypnotized the community
into doing X now. There's
no like master plan behind
what folks will do with
it. The point is that
there's no reason for us
not to release the source.
If it makes, if it,
if it's useful and it
makes people happy and they
can do something with it.
I mean, why it's like,
well, this is kind of
a silly analogy, but like
I released that might you
received my, you see my
tweet sandwich thing I released,
I haven't seen it. Okay.
So I go to Quiznos
for lunch occasionally. Right? And
the guy at Quiznos is
a former tech CEO type
and the OPO. And he
opened the tweeze nose as
a Quiznos. By the way,
for those of you who
are not from the U
S is a sandwich place,
you go in and you
get a toasted sub sandwich,
submarine sandwich. So it's a
franchise. And this tech vice
president CEO type bought it
as his retirement and he's
a geek. And he said,
you know, Hey, it's really
cool. I'm on Twitter, you're
on Twitter. You should make
it so we can tweet
the order. And then I
wrote a program in a
couple of hours that would
call tweet sandwich that would
look at his Twitter account
for replies. And if anybody
put in the word order,
they would automatically kick it
out of his printer. So
then the kids that work
at his sandwich shop just
go to the printer and
they get the orders and
it's called tweet sandwich. And
so now you order your
sandwich via Twitter, probably from
your phone, you know, as
you're on your way there
as I'm on the way
there, if I'm at a
stoplight, you go order it.
My usual is be there
in a minute and the
sandwich is waiting and it's
beautiful. Now it could have
been done over email. It
could have been over pager
could have been over a
thousand different things. It could
have been a straight web
service, but the fact that
Twitter as message bus is
interesting. Right? So what does
this have to do with
NBC? Well, it's one thing
to make something like that
and throw it up on
your blog and say, look
at this. It's cool. Here's
some screenshots, but it's another
to say. And here's all
the shores have fun. That
seems very significant to me
do what you want. So
I just, literally, as we're
talking here, a guy tweets
that he just made a
Twitter to growl bridge growl
is an open source notification
system. It's the one that
most people on max use,
where if you want like
balloon help or what's often
called toast to pop up
and notify you, toast comes
up down there by the
clock, right? So he wrote
a Twitter to growl bridge
things that go through Twitter,
then pop up through growl.
And he did this using
tweet sandwich as his starting
point. Nice template. Fantastic. Totally.
And like, am I now,
am I going to say
now? Yes. Master plan. This
was the goal release tweet
sandwich so I could make
it growl bridge. No, that's
the whole point release it,
have fun. Do something wonderful.
Hi, it's Scott here from
another place in time. I
hope you're enjoying the show
so far. I apologize for
interrupting it, but I wanted
to let you know that
assembling a podcast like this
every week, isn't free. Certainly
the bandwidth bill crushes us
every month. So I want
to let you know that
this show is sponsored by
Tellerik. They make the show
possible and it makes pretty
cool products as well. For
example, if you're trying to
build a web 2.0 Ajax
application, trying to use the
web 1.0 components, it's kind
of difficult. You got to
get the next gen stuff.
If you want to build
the next gen websites. And
that's exactly what the folks
at Tellerik have got and
their new upcoming product, which
is codenamed, rad controls. Prometheus's
big pack, a web controls
built entirely on top of
the Microsoft ASP and Ajax
stuff that you already understand.
It's going to give you
a lot of performance interactivity
on your next project. They
mirror the ASP net Ajax
API. So the development's really
straightforward client scripture's shared loading
time is pretty fast. You
set a couple of properties.
You can even bind a
web services for really efficient
operation. The new rad editor
for ESPN at Ajax loads
up to four times faster
than before. And the rad
grid will do thousands of
records in milliseconds. But of
course it's, it's better to
try these things for yourself.
So you can visit
dot com slash ASP, net
Ajax, and download a trial.
Thanks a lot for listening.
And we'll get right back
to the show. Yeah. I'm
just thinking in terms of,
I mean, we're talking about
MVC, we're talking about the,
you know, fairly low level
chunk of code, but what's
it written in and be
sure C sharp, right? Yeah.
So, I mean, this is
not, this is not lightweight,
easy things. I'm just trying
to think what people might
build with it. I could
see your tweet sandwich being
open source immediately. You know,
first thing jumps in my
mind is growl. Sure. But
when I think of MVC
out in the wild, what
are people going to do
with that? COVID who are
we to say? Right. I
guess that's true. I mean,
I hear what you're saying,
but, but you know, to,
to not, you're basically saying
to not release it because
I can't think of anything
someone could build. Let's say
someone didn't like the controller
action Invoker. They just didn't
like the way that actions
were being invoked and they
wanted to completely change it.
And they wanted to change
it in such a way
that the existing extensibility points
were not appropriate. There's like
13 or 14 points of
extensibility. They didn't like it,
or we marked something sealed
or internal and we shouldn't
have, or whatever, and they
don't want to wait. They
can just build it themselves.
You know what I mean?
Yeah. I do get what
you mean. It's interesting. And
then, like I said, it
is a template they could
work from to build some
alternatives. Let's think of some
other patterns they could implement
instead. Yeah, I dunno. I
mean, I you're actually what
you're actually kind of asking
me to think about what
they could build with it.
I don't know maybe nothing,
but I want Microsoft to
do it kind of flip
things from, you know, guilty
until proven innocent, innocent till
proven guilty and release stuff,
open source, unless there's an
incredibly compelling reason not to
Well, and then, then therein
lies the question, what source
should be open and what
source should, I mean, it
makes sense. No, I don't
know. Right, right. I mean,
this is the thing because
kind of the, the open
source, hardcore people sometimes will
say, well, everything. Right, right.
But then you have to
make some money, right? So
then people say, Oh, well
you make money off of
services, sources free. But I
think if you build something
with like a, let's say
you use log for net,
right. As you're logging tool,
but you make an application
that cures cancer, but software
or something, you know, maybe
you want to patent that,
but that has nothing to
do with log for net.
So should you release your
top, you know, the top
part of your application, just
because the bottom part was
opensource, you mean build it
with the bill, take all
these atoms 80 O M
and build molecules and then
put those out there. But
I wonder if the open
source, do you think open
source should be open source
applications are open source frameworks
and open source building blocks?
Well, I think the only
real reason that you make
frameworks open sources to compensate
for deficiencies in the framework
where apps become templates to
other ideas. Okay. This just,
you know, thinking of the
two different approaches on there.
I mean the one that
jumps out to me immediately
is should we open source
windows? What would, what would
happen that would be good
or bad from OPD sourcing
windows, Windows itself. Yeah. Well,
I mean, it'd be almost
impossible to build it cause
it's so big. Yes. Someone
could make evil windows. They
certainly could that those like
key loggers built in at
the low level or something
like that, they could customize
stuff they couldn't before. I
don't know. I mean, they
could, when they opened the
open source Linux, there was
a lot of chaos and
a lot of distros and
then that kind of relaxed
a little bit. And then
people started coming out with,
with better distros and the
new boon to happen. And
then it's kind of calmed
down. There's a lot fewer
distros now, and there are
a lot higher quality. So
I suppose if you opened
sorts windows, there'd be absolute
chaos for a while. And
then it would, there'd be
a couple of really good
versions that everyone would just
know about. Yeah. It's just
a windows is a whole
bunch bigger than Linux, so
it might be hard to
even get there. I don't
know that to be true,
isn't it? Yeah. I don't
know the exact details on,
I guess the impression of
it is that, yeah. I
don't know. That's a good
some lines. I think one
of the things about windows
that is that there's a,
there's probably a lot of
things in windows that are
work arounds for, for compatibility
reasons. You know, I think
that's probably true with all
operating systems, maybe less so
on the Mac, the idea
that windows has to support
anything, doing anything at any
time. Yes. And all, yeah.
All the old apps. Yeah.
All of those different things
and the hardware diversity like
yeah. It's windows has a
tough job. Well, I think
this is on Vista. If
I right click I'm right
now, I'm in, I'm in
windows seven. If I right.
Click on properties and go
compatibility, you know, there's all
of this compatibility mode stuff.
Yep. There's stuff like, you
know, remember back in the
day it was an XP.
You would, you would get
these things on windows update
that were the, you know,
the April, 2000 and whatever compatibility
mode thing. And then you'd
hit the help button and
going up to the support
that microsoft.com it would say,
you know, a patch for
Arthur's teacher trouble for windows,
you know, it makes it
work better. Those weren't patches
for Arthur teacher trouble itself.
They were patches for, for
windows. Yeah. To make sure
that people didn't think this
is the thing. Right. If
something doesn't run on windows,
people think poorly of windows,
you don't think poorly of
them. Yeah. Which is funny,
but yes, that's exactly. Yeah.
But you know, so suddenly
Arthur's teacher trouble stops working.
We hate windows. We don't
hate Arthur's teacher trouble in
Broderbund. So then a patch
comes out. So there's a
whole application compatibility thing underneath
windows. I should probably try
to find those guys and
do a show with them
because they're always testing stuff
to make sure it still
works. Absolutely. And there are
guys who are specialists. We
did someone run as radio
actually talked to one of
the guys who's who gets
brought into companies like Broderbund
to help them with their
compatibility challenges. Which episode was
that? How long ago was
that though? Good idea. It
was a while ago, but
it, it, yeah, it was
just an interesting, it was
very much an it discussion
of you've you're trying to
upgrade  and how do
you deal with old school
apps that you, you can't
retire? You know, what do
you gotta do? There's a
lot of I'm surprised that
stuff still works. Like, you
know, just the different dos
applications that I'm still able
to run. Yes. It's amazing
that the amazing as much
works as it is on
run as it was a
guy named Chris Jackson show
93 and yeah. And he's
just, he's one of the
specialists at Microsoft that deals
with, they call it the
application experience SWAT team, and
they deal with making apps,
run old, old windows app
run on new versions of
wind. You know, that's a
really good point cause that
people don't appreciate being able
to right. Click on something
and say, lie to this
program. You're really running on
windows 95. Yeah. That's so
cool. You know, and that's
just a patch for the
get version call, you know,
there's an API call at
the low level that says
get version. So they put
in some kind of a,
of a, of a patch
that says when this thing
calls get version, lie to
it. Yeah. Chris called them
shims shims is that that's
fantastic. But they also show,
you know, shim the registry.
So even though it said,
go right to the, the
local computer redirected over to
the special area in user
and, and what he tries
to write to the, to
the system, 32 directory, there's
a shim here that, that
pushes it over to the
application folder for the user,
that sort of stuff, all
the things we were supposed
to do as developers years
ago, when they said stop
writing, this is 32, you
know, those sorts of things
right now, they've actually overcome
them with these shifts Disc
path virtualization. Yeah. I've seen
that before where you, you
know, this application just flat
out, writes to winder slash
system 32. Yup. Which of
course is not allowed anymore.
So it ends up in
app data somewhere in a
virtualized folder. So basically the
right succeeds and the application
never knows because he'll also
read from there. Yep. And
things are okay, which is
funny because they spent all
this time saying behave and
they still have to pay
the price. Yeah. Afterward When,
and remember when remember code
access security, whenever it happened
to that, it just sort
of went away. That's a
good question. You just kind
of gave up on it.
Right. These are all these
things that Microsoft told us
to do in an effort
to try and make our
machines more reliable. Really. And,
and I guess at some
point, get to realize people
just weren't using it and
they stopped putting energy into
it. I don't know. I
think that it would be,
it would be nice to
be like a Mac because
Macs can say, and, and
I mean, max, I mean,
Apple can say, you know,
screw it. We're going to
break this. And people are
just going to have to
get over it. Yeah. And
I made it, this is
the impression, I mean, I've
got one, two, three, one,
two, three max in the
house too. I use all
the time and you know,
stuff just breaks, but inevitably
you can go up to
that small vendor and find
the version that fixes it.
They seem to be willing
to break stuff for the
purpose of moving forward. While
my Microsoft seems to be
less willing to break stuff.
Well, you could argue that
fundamentally the whole UAC crisis
in Vista was Microsoft trying
to finally trying to break
stuff. Right. And people freaked
out. Cause it's so many
moved my cheese. Yeah. That's
it. They messed with the
cheese and it was just
a disaster for them. It's,
it's a, it's almost like
a double standard. I don't
know how Microsoft could do
that. Better. Almost like a
double standard. Yeah. Just a
little bit like a double
standard. Just suddenly vaguely, you
may see this vaguely as
somewhat something resembling a double
standard. Well, but The argument,
the argument I always get
when I complained about these
things at work is that,
well, Microsoft is so big.
And so many people are
using windows that, you know,
if, if you break it
some three man construction company
that uses, you know, upgrades
from windows 95 to Vista
is going to be mad
when their little construction company
program breaks. And no one
in that, no one cares
enough to update that program.
So they'll be screwed. I
think another side of this
is the idea that, that
Microsoft tries to resist losing
customers. That way that people
just don't upgrade. I think
there's still a bunch of
people running around with old
Macs. Cause they can get
their old software to run
a new max. That's true
because I guess what is
it I used to be,
I used to have a
bunch of stuff running and
was it like  compatibility
mode? And then that stopped
working recently and no, but,
but some people complain, but
not enough that anyone cared
Right. Not enough. Well, and
they also think that when
you're Apple and a small
portion of the market, you
really can't go to the
federal trade commission and say,
this is destructive to business.
You know, like there's just,
there's that Microsoft's got the
same fear that IBM had.
We know there'll be this
whole thing of when you
are the biggest, there's always
that stress from the, the,
at the federal level that
will actually, you know, you're
going to end up in
front of Congress because you
didn't support some kind of
compatibility layer. Yeah. Man, running
a company is hard. Well,
Especially a company that's that
big. It'd be nice to
be a boutique and avoid
talking to Congress. But at
the same time, of course,
what's the boutique trying to
be. But the big guy
Valid point, I just always
thought it would be nice
to run a boutique and
just not get big ever
there. I think it's like
set that as a goal,
as a company goal, we
will never go public. We
will stay small and be
a boutique. Yeah. As soon
as I bring a hundred
people, I'll lay people off.
So I'm back down to
a hundred again. Right. Exactly.
Yeah. First guy just run
it as a cue. Yeah.
Sorry. And yeah. That, other
than that guys has to
leave now. Yeah. We want
to hire somebody new. We
have to find somebody to
fire. Are you? I used
to work for a company
like that that had 35
or so people and the
founders were 50 50 and
it wasn't 49 51, but
it was two guys. And
like we promise, we'll run
this place as a boutique
and it'll be small and
we'll all get to pay
our mortgages and everything will
be wonderful. And then, then
the nineties happened and it
became absolute chaos as we
tried to go public. And
the whole thing fell apart.
Yeah. They, I think the
greed takes over that comes
a point. I want more,
You know why, as soon
as I have enough money,
you're never going to hear
from me again while I
hope you'll send a Christmas
card. Well, I mean, I
might make text you occasionally,
but effectively. You'll never hear
from me again. It'll be
wished you weren't here. Postcards
And things like that. Yeah.
I'm glad I'm here too
bad. You're not See, ya
know, I just, I I'm
very much looking forward to
becoming like a, like a
high school teacher or something.
I read a book recently
on vacation. Actually I took
a week, took the girls
down to Mexico, sat on
a beach and read nonfiction
for a week and not
technology fiction, not non-technology nonfiction.
I really economics books, history,
books, that sort of thing.
And one of the books
unplugged. Yeah. No laptop, nothing
magical. One of the books
I read was a book
called small is beautiful economics
as if people mattered Economics
as if people That's right.
And the FA the concept
is Buddhist economics, the economics
of sufficiency. Yeah. See, that's
the thing, this whole great
depression. 2.0 thing has got
me wondering if capitalism as
a concept is kind of
overrated. And I don't mean
that in the end now
let's all be socialists. I
mean, in the, we can't
grow at 5% a quarter
forever. Absolutely. And you certainly
can't. And so the thing
is you have to Sally
and I put that in
quotes, Solly capitalism with regulation
solely meaning screwed up wealth
and restricted limited in ways.
Right. And you've got, you've
got to put regulations in
place so that it's not
actually this lazy fair capitalism
because people do matter. Hmm.
Someone might say that that
means perverting capitalism and screwing
it up. Absolutely. And I'm
sure I'll get a few
emails from folks saying, I
can tell you been up
in Canada too long. You
definitely sound like a socialist.
Yeah. Yeah. Well then you
get into the whole distributing,
the wealth thing and all
that kind of stuff. Well,
and, and there are degrees
at the same time, people
do need to be compensated
for their efforts and they
do need to have an
opportunity to succeed and to
do better than their parents.
You know, those are, are
interesting, fundamental motivators, but there
is still this idea of
sufficiency. Yeah. Well, and you
know how people say absolute
power corrupts. Absolutely. They don't
seem to say power corrupts
period. Right. It's that whole
absolute thing. I mean, so
I, at one time I
said to someone that, you
know, as soon as I'm
done making my millions, then
I'm, you'll never hear from
me again. This was actually
my boss that said this
at the time. And he
says, well, I'll probably be
here for you always, because
with that kind of an
attitude, you're never going to
make a million bucks, nice
people who have that attitude
don't make piles of money
because I'm always asking myself
why didn't so and so,
you know, whoever, the latest
guy who like the Twitter
guys, right. They, they sold
their stuff to the, they
made blogger, Evan Williams, right?
Like 23 years old. And
he, he made a kajillion
dollars when he sold blogger
to Google and here he
is doing the same thing.
Again, it's not like he
doesn't have enough money to
hang out. Why didn't he
hang out? Why isn't he
teaching high school? Because the
personality type to make the
money in the first place,
can't stop. I'm I'm with
you. I ha I have
friends like that who, you
know, made a huge pile
of money. Really doesn't need
to work. Always has a
few projects and they go,
but I just isn't creative
enough. You know, if I
had a billion dollars, I
think all I do all
day is practical jokes. You
know, while you were at
work, I'd have your car
converted a right hand drive.
Cause I think that's hilarious.
You get in the car
to steering wheels on the
other side. Yeah. Like there's
just, I got a hundred
of these. We can just
go The best thing that
a millionaire could be doing
with his time. Absolutely. Right.
Yeah. I'm going to have,
I'm going to demolish the
stairs with the front of
your house and have him
remade with one extra. I
wonder if life really becomes
so boring after the first
million? Nah, I don't know
a million dollars. Isn't that
much money anymore. Well, touch
data. I don't know. What's
a lot of money. $4 million
is a lot of money.
A lot of money means
you can live in a
nice house and hang out
and watch TV all day
forever. Well, the, yeah, the
idea that even if I
don't get up today, I've
still made more money than
I spent Today. There you
go. Yes, exactly. When your
burn rate matches your passive
income rate, that's right. A
lot of money. That's the
basic concept of wealth, Right?
Well, you know, what is
it they always say about
the Chris rock was talking
about the difference between being
rich and being wealthy. Right?
He said that Shaquille O'Neal
is rich, but the man
who signed Shaquille O'Neal's check
is wealthy. Right? Yeah. I
think the basis it's true.
It's absolutely true. So yeah,
building wealth and that passive
income kind of a sense,
but those, those people take
risks that I'm not willing
to take. Right? Like my
wife was like, you know,
we need to buy another
house, rented out and I'm
thinking now, how can you
buy a house? Now? This
is the worst possible time
to buy a house. Oh
goodness. Well, but see the
one person, the people who
are going to make a
lot of money are the
ones that are going to
buy houses right now. Maybe
they're taking a risk. Yeah.
Or they'll all be homeless
soon. I dunno. Yeah. All
of these things are possible.
This is true. Hmm. This
is a show about nothing.
This is like, this is
the Seinfeld of Hanselman. Seinfeld.
Do you think this is
the show in which we,
in fact wasted people's time.
I don't know. I hope
people read smallest. Beautiful. I
really enjoyed the book. Really.
Just as an interesting way
of thinking about there is
other ways to operate in
economy. Let's let's do this.
Let's end the show on
book recommendations. All right. Any
others? Well, not necessarily in
the Buddhist econ economics category,
but old man's war by
John Scalzi. S C a
L Z I and anything
John Scalzi writes is fantastic.
Is all good. All good.
Old man's war is wonderful.
It's kind of a Heinlein
kind of Starship troopers kind
of a thing. Okay. Very,
very good. The time Traveler's
wife is a book that
I recommend to everyone, because
it's just amazing. If you
heard about this book. Nope.
It's it's it's I won't,
I won't give the whole
thing away, but the, the
general idea is it starts
out and each chapter basically
says a, I forget their
names. It's just say Frank
and Ann, I don't know
what the people's names are.
It's like Frank is 26
and is eight. And then
the next chapter it's like
Frank is 35 and is
34. And it's about their
relationship as he jumps through
time. And she runs through
time normally. Wow. So it's
like a 60 year love
story, except he experiences it
from one timeline because he
has temporal displacement syndrome and
hops around his own timeline
and she doesn't and how
they maintain a relationship time.
Traveler's wife. That's interesting. Oh,
it's fantastic. And it's less
about time travel and more
about, I mean, yeah, maintaining
an interesting relationship. Another book
I read in my, my
week off was the case
for democracy by a guy
named Natan Sharansky. Okay. He
was a dissident in, in
Russia who was part of
the end of the Soviet
union. And, and just as
a very interesting way of
looking at how you end,
how you create new democracies
From the point of view
of someone who did not
live in a democracy. Right,
Right. And values it very
greatly now that he does
and is very conscious of
what it, what it took
to cause the Soviet union
to collapse. Hmm. Very interesting.
Absolutely. All right. Let's see.
What else am I reading
right now? Oh, alright. I'm
kind of in a bunch
of stuff. It's time to
do a reading list post
cause a man I'm just,
I'm just devouring books. I
got the Kindle. You have
the Kindle. I do not
have a Kindle. I'm in
Canada and it's hard to
use it. It is hard
to use it in Canada.
Sorry for you in Canada.
Yeah. Loving the Kindle. I'm
reading so much more than
I was before. It's really
obnoxious. And I was reading
a lot before, but just
cause he got it with
you all the time and
it's got a pile of
books in it. It does
well, and I'm also getting
lots of free books. I've
been reading a lot of
this Cory Doctorow you know,
the science fiction writer that
gives this stuff away. Yeah.
Yeah. He's got a really
interesting book. I'm halfway through
right now called little brother.
It's like big brother, but
it's a little brother and
it's about a 17 year
old after a nine 11
style attack in San Francisco
and how he, how he
deals with that as a,
as a young techie and
how you shouldn't trust anyone
over 25, that was kind
of the sixties all over
again. But in 2000, whatever
he's Canadian, you know, Cory
Doctorow is a Canyon. Absolutely.
Well that explains, that explains
a lot of the book.
Then there you go. Interesting.
Cool. Well, thanks so much
Richard Campbell for coming on and
wasting everyone's time. I appreciate
it very, very much. I'm
here to serve, sir. All
right. And we shall have
a handsome minutia another time.
This has been another fantastic
episode of Hansel minutes and
we'll see you again next
week.